# Applying Analytical Patterns

> :warning: THIS REPOSITORY IS CURRENTLY UNDER DEVELOPMENT! Please come back later to check if this warning message has been removed.

## Submission Guidelines

To ensure smooth processing of your submissions through GitHub Classroom automation, we cannot accommodate individual requests for changes. Therefore, please read all instructions carefully.

1. **Sync fork:** Ensure your fork is up-to-date with the upstream repository. You can do this through the GitHub UI or by running the following commands in your local forked repository:

    ```bash
    git pull upstream main --rebase
    git push origin <main/your_homework_repo> -f
    ```

3. **Open a PR in the upstream repository to submit your work:**
    - Open a Pull Request (PR) to merge changes from your `main` or custom `homework` branch in your forked repository into the main branch in the upstream repository, i.e., the repository your fork was created from.
    - Ensure your PR is opened correctly to trigger the GitHub workflow. Submitting to the wrong branch or repository will cause the GitHub action to fail.
    - See the [Steps to open a PR](#steps-to-open-a-pr) section below if you need help with this.

5. **Complete assignment prompts:** Write your SQL in the query file corresponding to the prompt number in the **`submission`** folder. Do not change or rename these files!
    >
    > :warning: The `_app` folder, `Dockerfile`, and `.github` folder are crucial for automated tests and feedback.
Do not modify these files/folders. Focus only on the files within the submission folder.
    >

6. **Lint your SQL code for readability.** Ensure your code is clean and easy to follow.

7. **Add comments to your queries.** Use the **`--`** syntax to explain each step and help the reviewer understand your thought process. 

A link to your PR will be automatically shared with our TA team. They will review and grade submissions after the homework deadline.

### Steps to open a PR
  1. Go to the upstream [**`analytical-patterns`**](https://github.com/DataExpert-ZachWilson-V4/analytical-patterns) repository
  2. Click the [**Pull Requests**](https://github.com/DataExpert-ZachWilson-V4/analytical-patterns/pulls) tab.
  3. Click the **"New pull request"** button on the top-right. This will take you to the [**"Compare changes"**](https://github.com/DataExpert-ZachWilson-V4/analytical-patterns/compare) page.
  4. Click the **"compare across forks"** link in the text.
  5. Leave the base repository as is. For the **"head repository"**, select your forked repository and then the name of the branch you want to compare from your forked repo.
  6. Click the **"Create pull request"** button to open the PR

**:warning: :exclamation: IMPORTANT CONSIDERATIONS & REMINDERS :exclamation: :warning:**
  - Do not close or merge your PR, as this will affect the codebase for others and make it difficult for TAs to find your submission.
  - You can revise and push changes to the PR before the deadline, but avoid making changes after the deadline, as they will not be reviewed and may cause confusion.
  - Some assignments include tests or feedback generated by GitHub Actions, which you can use to refine your solutions before the deadline.
  - Enhance your review by adding comments under 'Files changed' to summarize or highlight key parts of your code. If you've already added comments within your code, you can reiterate or summarize those comments here.

### Grading
  - Grades are pass or fail, used solely for certification.
  - Final grades will be submitted by a TA **after the deadline**.
  - An approved PR means a Pass grade. If changes are requested, the grade will be marked as Fail.
  - Reviewers may provide comments or suggestions with requested changes. These are optional and intended for your benefit. Any changes you make in response will not be re-reviewed.

Assignment
==================

Your task is to write a total of 4 queries using the `nba_players`,`nba_players_scd`, and `nba_player_seasons` tables from prior weeks.

## Assignment Tasks

- Write a query (`query_1`) that does state change tracking for `nba_players`. Create a state change-tracking field that takes on the following values:
  - A player entering the league should be `New`
  - A player leaving the league should be `Retired`
  - A player staying in the league should be `Continued Playing`
  - A player that comes out of retirement should be `Returned from Retirement`
  - A player that stays out of the league should be `Stayed Retired`
  
- Write a query (`query_2`) that uses `GROUPING SETS` to perform aggregations of the `nba_game_details` data. Create slices that aggregate along the following combinations of dimensions:
  - player and team
  - player and season
  - team

- Build additional queries on top of the results of the `GROUPING SETS` aggregations above to answer the following questions:
  - Write a query (`query_3`) to answer: "Which player scored the most points playing for a single team?"
  - Write a query (`query_4`) to answer: "Which player scored the most points in one season?"
  - Write a query (`query_5`) to answer: "Which team has won the most games"

- Write a query (`query_6`) that uses window functions on `nba_game_details` to answer the question: "What is the most games a single team has won in a given 90-game stretch?"

- Write a query (`query_7`) that uses window functions on `nba_game_details` to answer the question: "How many games in a row did LeBron James score over 10 points a game?"
